---
title: My Computers
author: conrad
description: Looking back, I see I have been programming computers for 54 years. I have owned many different computer models, and I describe them here in eye-glazing detail.
date: 2025-02-06 12:13:00 -0500
categories: [Computing]
---

I began programming computers in high school summer classes where we learned
Fortran. We used an [acoustic
coupler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acoustic_coupler) to connect to a
time-share computer at Oregon State University.

In college, I purchased a magnetic card-programmable [HP-67
calculator](https://www.hpmuseum.org/hp6797.htm) calculator for $495 and used it
in my physics, chemistry, and statistics courses, writing and saving small
programs on the magnetic cards.

From 1978-1983, I worked at U.S. Bank in Portland Oregon in the department that
processed checks. In 1982-1983, I learned how to program the [IBM 3890
reader/sorters](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_document_processors#IBM_3890).
If I hadn't left that job to start grad school in 1983, I would have taken up
the bank on its offer to teach me computer programming.

In 1982, I bought a [KayPro II](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kaypro) computer
and a dot matrix printer for a total cost of $1,800. The Kaypro II ran
[CP/M](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CP/M) on its 8-bit Z80 processor, had 64 kB
of memory, and used 5 1/4 inch floppy disks. I taught myself
[S-BASIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S-BASIC) and manually entered and
adapted source code from computer magazines. I also taught myself Z80 assembly
language programming. I wrote a word processor and a printer driver when I
needed to print Greek letters using my dot-matrix printer. I used this computer
for my Ph.D. qualifying exams and to write some simple bioinformatics software.

In 1986, our lab bought a Macintosh SE and a LaserWriter. I have been a
Macintosh user ever since. I used the Mac SE to write papers and my Ph.D.
dissertation. (I no longer have a digital copy of my dissertation because the
software and hardware are long obsolete.)

I wanted to learn to program the Mac, but that waited until my post-doc, when I
spent more time than I should have programming in C instead of doing lab work.

All of this computer experience and my self-taught skills paid off in a way I
didn't anticipate when I was hired in industry because of my computer skills in
combination with my experience in molecular biology.

I used a great variety of operating systems during my career, including VMS;
many versions of Unix and Linux; Mac OS 7, 8, 9, and X; macOS 11 and 12; and
Windows 95, NT, 7, 8, 10, and 11. I once had a tower computer built on which I
installed OS/2, Windows NT, Windows 95, and Linux so I could learn how to
configure, administer, and use each of those operating systems.

Since 1982, I have always owned at least one computer (sometimes several),
running through a long series of Macs including the PowerBook 140 and several
models of the MacBook Pro. I owned a 15-inch 2015 Retina MacBook Pro for five
years to avoid the later models with the problematic butterfly keyboard. In 2020
I bought a 13-inch M1 MacBook Air, a marvelous little laptop that my wife now uses,
replacing it in 2022 with a 16-inch M1 Pro MacBook Pro.

I currently own three computers. Two months ago I traded in my 16-inch M1 Pro
MacBook Pro for a 16-inch M4 Pro MacBook Pro with 48 GB of RAM, 1 TB of storage,
and a nanotexture screen. I use this excellent laptop for writing posts for my
two blogs, programming, finances, Zoom meetings, etc. I expect this laptop to
last me many years.

Three months ago I traded in my 13-inch Surface Laptop 5 for a [15-inch Surface
Laptop, 7th Edition, Copilot+
PC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surface_Laptop_(7th_generation))
with a Snapdragon X Elite processor, 64 GB RAM, and 1 TB of storage. This is
also an excellent laptop, equal in quality to my MacBook Pro but less
expensive. This computer runs Windows 11 24H2, and I use it for Windows-related
programming and Linux programming using Windows Subsystem for Linux.

My third computer is a [16-inch Asus ROG Zephyrus M16 GU604VI gaming
laptop](https://rog.asus.com/us/laptops/rog-zephyrus/rog-zephyrus-m16-2023-series/spec/)
with an Intel i9 processor, NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4070 Laptop GPU, 32 GB of RAM,
and 1 TB of storage. This computer also runs Windows 11 24H2. I bought this
computer in the summer of 2023. I use this laptop to run the
[OpenSpace](https://www.openspaceproject.com) astronomy visualization program,
and I plan to use it for gaming when I find some free time. ASUS called this
a laptop computer, but in gaming mode it is too hot to place on my lap.

I also own a 13-inch M3 iPad Air. I have owned many of the iPad models going
back to the very first model, and I have passed them on to relatives rather than
trade them in. Until 2024 I always bought the 11-inch models, but I was
influenced by my brother, who has a 13-inch iPad Air because its larger size
makes it easier to read music.

I once owned [Google's Nexus 7
tablet](https://arstechnica.com/gadgets/2023/05/the-nexus-7-was-googles-only-great-tablet-and-it-has-never-tried-to-replace-it/).
I thought it was a nicer tablet than the iPad, but Google abandoned support
before I had owned it for three years. Consequently, I will never buy a Google
product again.

I started buying iPhones with the [iPhone
4S](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPhone_4s); before that, I had a flip phone
and the [iPod touch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPod_Touch). For several
years I owned an iPhone SE because I loved its small size. But eventually I was
lured into buying the iPhone 14 Pro because I wanted a better camera and longer
battery life. I recently upgraded my phone to the iPhone 16 Pro, primarily
because I wanted the 5x telephoto. I have the base model because 128 GB of
storage works well for my needs.

I have owned the Apple Watch 4, 6, 7, and now 10. These are good watches that I
use for the fitness features, but for a smart watch they aren't very smart, and
some of the fitness features don't always work well. I own the LTE model because
I don't have to carry a phone when I go for a run; my wife can track my position
and call me on my watch if she needs to reach me.

Finally, in the Apple ecosystem, three years ago I bought the [Apple
TV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_TV) digital media player. We have a very
basic, nonsmart "HD ready" flat panel TV (1360 x 768 resolution) connected to
it. I usually watch movies and TV shows on my laptop, iPad, or iPhone rather
than on the TV.

Finally, a year ago I bought the [OLED Nintendo
Switch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nintendo_Switch#OLED_model) so I could
play [*The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the
Wild*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Legend_of_Zelda:_Breath_of_the_Wild).
