---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-calendar
order: 2
---

## Sunday January 19, 2025

I am listening to two audiobooks: *Sodom and Gomorrah* (translated to English)
by Marcel Proust and *Gaudy Night* by Dorothy L. Sayers.

This month I began reteaching myself the PHP programming language (which I last
used for a freelance project in 2005) with an aim to writing my own WordPress
theme for my blogs. Then I discovered Jekyll and the Chirpy theme, which is
perfect for producing this blog, and I have lost interest in WordPress. However,
I have a small data project that tracks the audiobooks I have listened to for
which PHP would a good solution.

I am also learning modern HTML, CSS, and JavaScript from Dave Gray's tutorials
on YouTube. I am way behind the times, having learned these in the early 2010s
and not keeping up with new standards and capabilities.

For the past three years I have been taking classes in astronomy from various
astronomy clubs. I have an idea that I'd like to put together a four-session
class that is a survey of the Milky Way galaxy, and I've begun to collect notes.

After a minor injury last August, I started running again in November. My
progress has been steady, and I ran 22 miles the week of January 6 with a long
run of 10 miles. Since that completed 10 weeks in a row of running, I took six
days off to rest my joints. I ran today before tonight's snowstorm, which will
make it difficult to run for a few days. My goal is to run at least one half
marathon in 2025.

Bicycling is on hiatus because of the cold weather. I need to take my bike in to
the local bicycle shop (LBS) for annual maintenance.

Each week, I reduce clutter in our house until our trash bin is full. It will
take many more weeks to eliminate the clutter accumulated from living in our
house for almost 24 years.

I killed my Twitter/X account in 2024, and I don't post anymore on Facebook. I
have an Instagram account that I use only for seeing what my friends are doing.
I just opened a Bluesky account, and it feels like the old Twitter of the 2010s,
but I post rarely there.
